**Basic Python Programming Practice Questions**

**(Based on conditional and looping constructs)**

1\. Write a Python program to find those numbers which are divisible by
7 and multiple of 5, between 1 and 1000 (both included).

2\. Write a Python program to count the number of even and odd numbers
from a series of numbers.

3\. Write a Python program that prints all the numbers from 0 to 6
except 3 and 6.

Note : Use \'continue\' statement.

**Expected Output : 0 1 2 4 5**

4\. Write a Python program which iterates the integers from 1 to 50. For
multiples of three print \"Fizz\" instead of the number and for the
multiples of five print \"Buzz\". For numbers which are multiples of
both three and five print \"FizzBuzz\".

**Sample Output :**

> 1
>
> 2
>
> Fizz
>
> 4
>
> Buzz
>
> Fizz
>
> 7
>
> 8
>
> Fizz
>
> .
>
> .
>
> .
>
> .

5\. Write a Python program to perform sum of two given integers.
However, if the sum is between 15 to 20, it will return 20.

6\. Write a Python program to calculate the sum and average of n integer
numbers (input from the user). Input 0 to finish.

7\. Write a Python program to input two integers in a single line.

8\. Write a python program to sum of the first n positive integers.

9\. Write a Python program to parse a string to Float or Integer.

10\. Write a Python program to accept a number from the user and find
its factorial. Do necessary validations.

11\. Write a Python program to accept two numbers from the user and swap
them.

12\. Write a Python program to find **x raise to y**. (Assume x and y as
integers and do not use exponentiation operator).

13\. Write a Python program to accept a number from the user and prints
sum of its digits.

**\[ Exa. If input is Num = 234, then output should be 9 (i.e. 2+3+4 =
9) \]**

14\. Write a Python program that will accept the base and height of a
triangle and compute the area.

15\. Write a Python program which will print the sum of first N natural
numbers. (Accept the value of N from the user).

16\. Write a Python program which will print the sum of even numbers
between 21 to 45.

17\. Write a Python program to create the multiplication table (from 1
to 10) of a number.

Expected Output:

Input a number: 8

8 x 1 = 8

8 x 2 = 16

8 x 3 = 24

.

.

.

8 x 10 = 80

18\. Write a program to accept a binary number and convert it into
decimal number.

Q19. Write a program which accepts an integer value as command line and
print "Ok" if value is between 1 to 50 (both inclusive) otherwise it
prints" Out **of range"** message.

Q20. Write a program to accept a number and count number of even, odd,
zero digits within that number.

Q21. Write a program to find sum of first and last digits of a given
number.

**Example : If num = 2587 then ans = 9 because 2+7 = 9**

Q22. Write a program to accept a number from the user and calculate sum
of even digits of a given number.

**Example : If num = 2345 then ans = 6 because 4+2 = 6**

Q23. Write a program to calculate and print sum of the digits at odd
places of a given number.

**Example : If num = 1253, then ans = 5 because 3 + 2 = 5**

Q24. Write a program to accept a number from the user and find out the
largest digit value from the number.

**Example :** **If num = 2496 then ans = 9 because 9 is largest digit in
the given number.**

Q25. Write a Python Program to find maximum of three numbers using
logical operators.

Q26. Write a Python Program to display Quotient and Remainder of
division of two variables.

Q27. Write a Python program to swap the values of two variables using
bitwise operator.

Q28. Write a Python program to check whether a number is even or odd
using bitwise operator.

Q29. Write a Python program to accept a character as input and check
whether the character is a digit. (Check if it is in the range '0' to
'9' both inclusive)

Q30. Write a Python program to accept a character from the user and
check whether the character is a vowel or consonant. (Hint: a, e, i, o ,
u, A, E, I, O, U are the vowels)

Q31. Write a Python program to accept the x and y coordinate of a point
and find the quadrant in which the point lies.

Q32. Write a Python program which accepts a number N from the user and
displays each digit in words.

**Example:** 6702

**Output :** Six-Seven-Zero-Two.

Q33. Write a Python program to sum the series :

1 + 1/2 + 1/3 + 1/4 + .......... + 1/n

If n = 3, then sum should be of first THREE terms only i.e. **1 + 1/2 +
1/3**

Q34. Write a Python program to sum the series :

1 + 1/2^2^ + 1/3^2^ + 1/4^2^ + .......... + 1/n^2^

If n = 3, then sum should be of first THREE terms only i.e. **1 +
1/2^2^ + 1/3^2^**

Q35. Write a Python program to sum the series :

1/2 + 2/3 + 3/4 + .......... + n/n+1

If n = 3, then sum should be of first THREE terms only i.e. **1/2 +
2/3 + 3/4**
